hey this is pressure Walker team a has
four girls and seven boys team a takes
five days to paint four rooms
Team B has seven girls and ten boys team
B takes four days to paint five rooms
team C has eight girls and five boys how
long will it take team C to paint six
rooms assume every girl works at a
constant rate every boy works at a
constant rate and every room is
identical this problem was posted to
Cora and suggested to me by Allah Delhi
from Nigeria can you figure it out give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching the video for a solution
so let's set up some variables let
lowercase G be the percentage of a room
a girl paints daily let capital G EP the
number of girls working on a team then
capital G times lowercase G will be the
number of rooms that capital G girls
paint daily we can set up similar
variables for boys the lowercase B equal
the percentage of a room a boy paints
daily but capital B equal the number of
boys working on a team then capital B
times lowercase B equals the number of
rooms capital B boys paint daily now if
we multiply each of these by T days we
get the number of rooms that either G
girls or B boys paint in T days now team
a has four girls and seven boys and it
takes five days to paint four rooms so
we add up the work that the girls do and
the work that the boys do to get a total
of four rooms so this translates into
the following equation we have five
times the quantity for g plus five times
the quantity seven B is equal to four
five times the quantity for G is the
amount of work that the girls are doing
and five times the quantity seven
B is the amount of work that the boys
are doing to get a total of four rooms
now for Team B we can set up a similar
equation we have four times the quantity
7g plus four times the quantity 10 B
equals 5 now for Team C we know the
number of girls in the number of boys
and we know that there are six rooms and
we want to solve for the variable T so
we have T times the quantity 8g + 5 B
equals 6 so how can we solve for T well
let's take a look at the first two
equations we set up we can rewrite the
first equation as 20 G Plus 35 B equals
4 the second equation becomes 28 G Plus
40 B is equal to 5 now if we subtract
the first equation from the second we
get 8 g + 5 b is equal to 1 and that
exactly matches what we want to find in
team c so just algebraically if we
multiply both sides by 6 we can see that
T has to be equal to 6 but you can also
interpret the answer if 8 g + 5 b is
equal to 1 that means 8 girls and five
boys can paint one room in one day
therefore it will take six days for Team
C to paint 6 rooms did you figure it out
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions if you like this video
you can check out my books which are
listed in the video description and you
can support me on patreon if you have a
math topic you can email me pressure and
mind your decisions calm and you can
catch me on social media either at mind
your decisions or a pressure Walker